--- 
title: "Finally Decided: JQuery, not Prototype"
layout: post
---
JQuery (for those of you just landed from Mars) is an unobtrusive javascript framework. read more at the <a href="http://jquery.com/">JQuery home page</a>.<br />jQuery supports Behavior driven development and is based on traversing HTML documents by CSS Selectors.<br />vs.<br />Prototype,<br />Prototype is also JavaScript library for Class driven development which makes life easier working with JavaScript. Prototype library has a good support in Ruby on Rails via helper functions and is basically well embedded in.<br /><br />i decided to try to match both of these libraries (and dojo for the matter of fact, but the project was halted), and here are my conclusions.<br /><br /><ul><br /><li>BDD<br /><br /><br />JQuery is very similar to CSS by assigning the HTML element behaviour out-side the HTML, so it is generally more adequate for MVC.<br />for ex:<br /><code><br /> $(element).click(function() {<br />         alert("warning");<br /> });<br /></code><br />simple.<br /></li><br /><li>Chaining<br />Chining methods is as simple as ruby. period<br /></li><br /><li>CSS Selectors<br /><br />Since JQuery is based upon CSS, you can access any element by it's CSS path, and avoid these annoying pesky ID's you have to put using Prototype.<br /></li><br /></ul><br />for some more comparisons, visit the Ajaxian article<br /><br />Finally:<br />Jquery and prototype are both great. For me, i prefer JQuery since it's approach appeals to me more than Prototype's, Although prototype is kinda Rubish and has inbound support from Rails, JQuery is still cleaner to me.<br />Did someone said  JQuery to Rails integration?
