--- 
title: attachment_fu and minimagick resize bug
layout: post
---
In one of my latest projects i was using the attachement_fu plugin to handle image uploads.<br />The attachement_fu plugin enables the option to select an image processor engine between <a href="http://seattlerb.rubyforge.org/ImageScience.html">ImageScience</a>, <a href="http://rmagick.rubyforge.org/">Rmagick</a> add <a href="http://rubyforge.org/projects/mini-magick/">MiniMagick</a>:<br /><ol><li>Rmagick<br />Kinda bulky, leaking but fully functional<br /></li><li>MiniMagick<br />Simple version of Rmagick, simple and small.</li><li>ImageSceince<br />Small, nice, and quick.</li></ol>i decided to use MiniMagick as my processor, i installed the gem:
<pre>
sudo gem install mini_magick
</pre> and added a specific <code>:processor</code> option to my Logo model.
<pre class="brush:ruby">
has_attachment :content_type => :image, 
                  :storage => :file_system, 
                   :max_size => 2.megabytes,
                   :resize_to => 'x100',
                   :processor => :mini_magick
</pre>
but when i was uploading an image, i was was expecting it to be resized based on the options i specified in the model. imagine how surprised i was when i found out that the image is not being resized.
checking the log found the following error:
<pre class="brush: plain">
Exception working with image: ImageMagick command (identify "/var/folders/Bv/Bvbna8-OH548ZWju8naF4U+++TI/-Tmp-/minimagick11451-0") failed: Error Given 32512
</pre>
Googling it didn't help me much (except from finding other people with the same problem), so i decided to switch to use <a href="http://seattlerb.rubyforge.org/ImageScience.html">ImageScience</a> instead (RMagick is out of the question of course).
<pre class="brush: bash">
sudo gem install image_science
</pre>
this will include all most all dependencies, but the <a href="http://seattlerb.rubyforge.org/ImageScience.html">freeImage</a> dependency is also needed.
us mac/darwin users can simply use port:
<pre class="brush: bash">
sudo port selfupdate
sudo port install freeimage
</pre>
now change the processor in the model
<pre class="brush: ruby">
has_attachment :content_type => :image, 
                   :storage => :file_system, 
                   :max_size => 2.megabytes,
                   :resize_to => 'x100',
                   :processor => :image_science
</pre>
and now it's working. yeah!.
