--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 28/7/2009
layout: post
---
* "iPhone 3.0 Push Notifications in Rails":http://www.metabates.com/2009/07/24/apple-push-notifications-on-rails/ - use this new feature introduced on the iPhoneOS 3.0 (credit: "Mike Gunderloy":http://afreshcup.com)
* "Git Practices":http://groups.google.com/group/github/browse_thread/thread/21504b22aea01f8e?hl=en - Confused? so am i, some good tips on Git practices from the guys at GitHub.. Now all they have to know is how to scale their service .....*crickets*
* "Pro Git book":http://progit.org/book/ - Now available online.
* "Fun with Dates and CSS Sprites":http://css-tricks.com/date-display-with-sprites/ - i love those stuff.
* "Why acts_as_taggable_on_steroids was slow?":http://www.elctech.com/snippets/acts_as_taggable_on_steroids-was-really-slow - a lesson in database maintenance. 


h4. GitHub Treasures

* "github-token-fetcher":http://github.com/radar/github-token-fetcher/tree/master - Get a user API Token instead of asking them to bring it to you.
* "TimeWarp":http://github.com/iridesco/time-warp/tree/master  - a gem that let's you change your time (For tests mainly).
* "Looksee":http://github.com/oggy/looksee/tree/master - Examine the precise method lookup path of any ruby object in ways not possible in standard ruby, which means, you can see which method came from which ancestor.
* "Pagify":http://github.com/godfat/pagify/tree/master - a will_paginate replacement.
* "Decider":http://github.com/danielsdeleo/Decider/tree/master - a ruby learning machine.
* "ActiveSocket":http://github.com/keithmgould/ActiveSocket/tree/master - allows instant Service Oriented Architecture (SOA). ActiveSocket::Base extends ActiveRecord::Base, and over-rides only where necessary so that the actual model resides on the other side of a TCP socket connection.
* "Apache log parser in ruby":http://github.com/d3nix/apachelogregex/tree/master - nice, better if it had some constant rules (:404_requests maybe).
