--- 
title: Maybe Rails is not a Ghetto, maybe it is
layout: post
---
I wrote this post fast, and while i'm pretty pissed off, please excuse any grammar mistakes.


"Mike Gunderloy":http://www.afreshcup.com had decided today "to resign from his position in the Rails activists team":http://afreshcup.com/2009/04/28/a-painful-decision/ following a debate between him and some of the other Rails core members on their approach to female programmers and that stupid porn related Couchdb presentation (which wasn't that good anyway).


I am not really in the state of knowing what happened there, or why this had to happen in the first place, but i do know that mike is valuable asset to this community and i'm pretty sure he is far more valuable than the fucking porn presentation or any other stupid RailsConf presentation there might be.

Mike is one of the most active activists, he created some of the best guides out there for beginners (his "Routing":http://guides.rubyonrails.org/routing.html guide finally got me into using RESTful routing) and for existing users too. i had seen him help around <code>#rubyonrails</code> and answering questions with the precision of an Israeli Mossad assassin,  i even had to honor to work with him on some experimental advanced Rails Model generator, and i had a blast doing so.
A "community" is not about the hype, i didn't care when Alex Payne said "Rails doesn't scale" or any of his other BS and his men-love to scala.. why? because it was harmless, he was only making a fool of himself and nobody really thought about quitting rails because "Alex said that scala is better".
This is different, here there's a real damage to the community, for a price i'm not sure it's willing to pay.

My mom used to say that "if you don't respect what you are doing, no one else is going to respect you either", so if you degrade your level of professionalism to a mare "Hi! it's porn and it's funny, LET'S USE IT IN THE RAILSCONF" is a stupid decision, done by stupid people.
When i say stupid... i don't mean that these people are not *smart*, just that they are not *wise*. In Hebrew there's a saying that goes something like "A smart person can get out of a hole, a wise person will not fall in to", and that's exactly the case.


Again, i don't really know what happened in there but from reading DHH's last few posts("#1":http://www.loudthinking.com/posts/40-alpha-male-programmers-arent-keeping-women-out, "#2":http://www.loudthinking.com/posts/39-im-an-r-rated-individual), i can only imagine what it's like to try to engage a reasonable conversation with someone like that.. again.. smart.. yeah... wise?
I am sure he is not the only one to blame for this mess, but it's not the first time i sense that kind of approach from his direction, ever since that "'i'm DHH (GOD) AND I OWE YOU NOTHING'":http://www.rubyinside.com/david-heinemeier-hansson-says-no-to-use-of-rails-logo-567.html incident, the strange feeling that someone is might be a little megalomaniac-eesh began to nest in my head.
It came even stronger after reading Zed Shaw's "Rails is a ghetto" article (which he removed recently) although i didn't fully understand his strong position, today i guess i can see it too.


*DOES ANYONE REALLY THINK IT WORTH THE PRICE? THIS FUCKING COUCHDB PRESENTATION!? THAT MY WIKI PAGE ON IT HAS MORE STYLE AND RELEVANCY?! THIS CHILDISH 6 YEAR OLD BEHAVIOR ?!*


I am not a core contributor (although i wanted to be), i am not a Working With Rails top 100 resident, and i am not a super duper extra smart web developer like a lot of other people from this community, i am only a guy that is deeply disappointed with the approach of the people who suppose to lead this community and their priorities.

I really hope this whole issue is going to end on the good side, and that this community will not lose one more of it's most precious contributors (like it lost "Zed Shaw":http://www.zedshaw.com/ to Django), there aren't as many people as talented as these two.
I was considering in the last few days whether i should go to the RailsConf, a decision that may had to require me to a 12 flight to Israel for a friend's wedding and only 4 hours later back to the US (another 12 hours to new york and from there to to Las Vegas)....

I am not coming, and now i am happy with it.

