--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 25/7/2009
layout: post
---
* "JQuery smart columns":http://www.sohtanaka.com/web-design/smart-columns-w-css-jquery/ - Not sure what a _smart column_ is, but it seem to handle view port overflow, i usually handle these cases with CSS but what the heck.
* "lessCSS":http://lesscss.org/ and the "lessCSS rack middleware":http://sickill.net/blog/2009/07/25/lesscss-goodies.html - lessCSS generally let's you write extended CSS by adding variables and other cool stuff that make your life easier. The middleware is just plainly to make your life easier what converting <code>.less</code> to <code>.css</code>.
* "Event detection in JQuery":http://www.devcurry.com/2009/07/detect-any-event-on-element-using.html - a small script that enables you to detect what kind of event occurred. 
* "Google Maps implementation on Rails":http://www.killswitchcollective.com/articles/65 - i might need it soon, better keep it around.
" "Integrate OAuth consumers, the easy way":http://stakeventures.com/articles/2009/07/21/consuming-oauth-intelligently-in-rails - a nice plugin that simplifies the process of consuming OAuth services.


h4. GitHub Treasures

* "rehash":http://github.com/webandy/rehash/tree/master - yet another ruby blogging platform, shows a decent amount of features... maybe my quest for a Mephisto replacement is near? 
* "bootstrap_slice":http://github.com/integrum/bootstrap_slice/tree/master - a SliceHost bootstrapping slice initiator.
* "ubistrano":http://github.com/winton/ubistrano/tree/master - a cute Capistrano imitation for EC2 deployments (Rubber is doing it already).
* "Syncopate":http://github.com/thynctank/Syncopate/tree/master - an HTML5 database abstraction layer, W00T!
