--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 30/7/2009
layout: post
---
* "Good API design":http://jdegoes.squarespace.com/journal/2009/5/2/good-api-design-part-1.html - not web-ish example, but definitely some things to consider if you are going to develop an API soon.
* "Web server security":http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/web/library/wa-secureweb/?ca=dgr-lnxw82Web-Secure&S_TACT=105AGX59&S_CMP=grsitelnxw82 - article by IBM, a nice basic reviews of the threats against a web server.
* "Worst REST practices":http://jacobian.org/writing/rest-worst-practices/ - things to watch out for when you are RESTing.
* "Use Monit to moniter, don't trust GOD":http://blog.bradgessler.com/use-monit-with-rails-not-god - This dude sure as hell has something against GOD.
* "OAuth explained":http://railstips.org/2009/3/29/oauth-explained-and-what-it-is-good-for - another tip for those of use who need to develop an API soon.
* "Nice looking JQuery scrolling plugin":http://www.flowplayer.org/tools/scrollable.html - this one is for me, i'll need it soon enough.
* "2 minutes layout generators (rails plugin)":http://gravityblast.com/2009/07/30/2-minutes-admin-layout-with-rails-and-the-web-app-theme-generator/ - nice, i was wondering how to use it.

h4. GitHub Treasures

* "germinate":http://github.com/tylerhunt/germinate/tree/master - i expected more from this name, but this is just yet another seeding plugin for rails.
* "simpler_record":http://github.com/appoxy/simple_record/tree/master - An ActiveRecord interface for SimpleDB.
* "skinny_blog_engine":http://github.com/brownbeagle/skinny_blog_engine/tree/master - another skinny blog engine in rails, i am still hoping for a decent replacement to Mephisto before i turn back to WordPress.
* "xss_terminate":http://github.com/CodeMonkeyKevin/xss_terminate/tree/master - a plugin in that makes stripping and sanitizing HTML stupid-simple. Install and forget.
* "formtastic":http://github.com/bmcnaboe/formtastic/tree/master - a semantic, clean form builder for Rails.
