--- 
title: 2008 and me
layout: post
---
i have learned a lot of new things, which i am very happy about, but i also had some bad experiences:<br />
<br />
in Programming, i learned<br />
<ul><li>how to use <a href="http://git.or.cz/">git</a>, finally.</li>
<li>about <a href="http://www.unfuddle.com/">unfuddle</a> and i am happy about it.</li>
<li>how to master <a href="http://weblog.rubyonrails.org/2008/6/1/rails-2-1-time-zones-dirty-caching-gem-dependencies-caching-etc">Rails Caching.</a></li>
<li>how to master Ruby meta programming to the max (self learning class!).</li>
<li>how to use Oracle, also with rails.<br />
</li>
<li>tried .net, hated it.</li>
<li>tried Django, hated it.<br />
</li>
<li><a href="http://jquery.com/">JQuery</a>, <a href="http://mootools.net/">MooTools</a> and basically Javascript.</li>
<li>the power of RSS feeds.</li>
<li>about the joy in helping others where you struggled in forums across the net.<br />
</li>
</ul>in Business, i learned<br />
<ul><li>Never to do business with friends.</li>
<li>Never to do business with friends, ever (yeah, twice).</li>
<li>how to spot opportunities of a life time.</li>
<li>how to make words and sentences, into real kicking money</li>
<li>how to harness adsense.</li>
<li>how to negotiate when i am not on top.</li>
<li>how to fight, struggle and win with minimum resources.</li>
<li>from the big shots, how to do it in the USA.<br />
</li>
</ul><br />
Life<br />
<ul><li>microsoft came back into my life with an XBOX-360, and i hate to say i like it.</li>
<li>i learned to play the guitar.</li>
<li>Moved to USA, smartest thing i did in my life.<br />
</li>
<li>i learned how to run a flawless project plan.</li>
<li>got 2 more Macs, ipod, and an AppleTv.</li>
</ul><br />
on the good side...<br />
<ul><li>Took part in few amazing projects.</li>
<li>Gained #1 on Oracle ruby on rails blog reference page.</li>
<li>Finally started my own baby startup.</li>
<li>Got 1.8M$ investment for a friend's company in a 45 minute phone call to the investor.</li>
<li>Sold all my AAPL shares before the crisis.</li>
<li>Taking a major part in bringing Rails to Israel.<br />
</li>
</ul>On the down side...<br />
<ul><li>i lost too many friends, if they ever were.</li>
<li>too many of my dreams and wishes came down in flames (but were replaced by new ones.)</li>
</ul><br />
Looking back, it wasn't such a bad year... some things may not be so good, but i believe that 2009 is the key year for me.<br />
Hopefully in the next year (on Mephisto!!), i will be able to say<br />
"it was an amazing year"<br />
<br />
happy new year everyone.
