--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 28/9/2009
layout: post
---
First thing is first: The "RailsBridge":http://railsbridge.org's famous "Rails BugMash":http://wiki.railsbridge.org/projects/railsbridge/wiki/BugMash was up again this week, and sadly i was only able to participate for only a mare few hours, i was thrilled to realize that again, the BugMash is getting the best of me.
Comparing to the first one last month, i was a lot more familiar and ready this time to handle the Rails core code, Git ninja maneuvers and general Ruby and Rails/idioms and internal processes, and i must say it was even more fun and addictive this time.

I really hope that all of you rails developers join us the next time are throwing in a BugMash party, you'd be surprised to know how easy it is to find something you want to change/fix in the rails core and submit a patch. Except from the huge help you are going to get on *#railsbridge* on IRC, you'll be able to get to know tools and procedures and are not so confident in using them, and possibly achieve a "Rails Contributor" status, win.

Now, awesome links ahead.

* "RubyMine 2.0 Beta":http://www.jetbrains.com/ruby/nextversion/index.html - another release for this IDE, people seem to like it thu.
* "rake console":http://www.simonecarletti.com/blog/2009/09/rake-console/ - custom IRB instance for your ruby gem interface.
* "TeachMeToCode screencasts":http://www.teachmetocode.com/screencasts/3 - another dedicated Rails screencasting website.
* "Javascript Libraries for easier web design":http://net.tutsplus.com/articles/web-roundups/5-lesser-known-javascript-libraries-that-make-web-design-easier/ - web design? easier? i'm in.
* "convert_theme":http://rubyforge.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=34840 - convert any html theme to Rails, Dr. nic is on it.. i would pay attention to it when it's done.
* "jQuery Desktop":http://sonspring.com/journal/jquery-desktop - a jQuery desktop interface implementation, javascript is awesome.
* "Javascript's 'this'":http://justin.harmonize.fm/index.php/2009/09/an-introduction-to-javascripts-this/ - an explanation about Javascript's "this" object and scopes.
* "jQuery wall for webkit":http://addyosmani.com/blog/an-amazing-jquery-3d-wall-for-webkit-youtube-edition/ - superior browsers are fun.
* "SwitchBoard - event listeners for ActiveRecord":http://pivotallabs.com/users/jdean/blog/articles/1020-introducing-switchboard-easy-to-use-global-activerecord-event-listeners - Observers on steroids ?
* "jQuery accessible slider":http://www.filamentgroup.com/lab/developing_an_accessible_slider/ - pretty, neat and accessible.
* "Sliding panel in jQuery":http://faycaltirich.blogspot.com/1979/01/wp-sliding-logindashboard-panel.html - a sliding bar on top, could be more fun to have it a little bit more customizable.
* "TweetStream":http://www.intridea.com/2009/9/22/tweetstream-ruby-access-to-the-twitter-streaming-api?blog=development - access Twitter stream in Ruby
* "Real-time related tweets widget":http://www.moretechtips.net/2009/09/realtime-related-tweets-bar-another.html - display related twits instantly on your site.
* "3D Sphere in jQuery":http://www.devirtuoso.com/2009/09/3d-sphere-using-jquery/ - again, javascript. i think this is the only reason i like modern age graphic browsers. 
* "Railings":http://developingwithstyle.com/articles/2009/09/23/railings-a-full-featured-ruby-on-rails-template.html - another attempt for an Uber rails template.
* "Painless DOM building in Javascript":http://www.agimatec.de/blog/2009/09/painless-dom-building-with-mkup/ - mkup is a nice DSL for DOM construction, looks easy and simple.
* "Testing Rails observers with shoulda":http://return42.blogspot.com/2009/09/testing-rails-obsevers-with-shoulda.html - another neglected testing aspect revealed.
* "Anaphora in Ruby":http://github.com/raganwald/homoiconic/blob/master/2009-09-22/anaphora.md#readme - i have absolutely no idea what that is, it's just here for you and me for later reading, looks interesting thu.
* "Setup Gitorious":http://cjohansen.no/en/ruby/setting_up_gitorious_on_your_own_server - open source Rails application for managing your projects: Git repositories, wikis, timeline and more.
* "Capistrano file actions":http://www.simonecarletti.com/blog/2009/09/capistrano-file-transfer-actions/ - apparently, this old gizzer is still kicking.
* "Rails Time zone aware attributes and Chronic":http://mad.ly/2008/09/25/making-rails-time-zone-aware-attributes-and-chronic-play-well-together/ - make those 2 play nice.
* "Javascript Rails templates":http://mad.ly/2007/11/02/javascript-embedded-ruby-templates-with-rails-out-of-the-box/ - nice and easy implementation and example, i like this blog.
* "Bash scripting guide":http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/ - cause who doesn't like bash ?
* "When GitHub goes down":http://ozmm.org/posts/when_github_goes_down.html - ways to maintain sanity.


h4. GitHub Treasures

* "validatius_on_rails":http://github.com/grimen/validatious-on-rails/ - a binding between Rails validations and client side validations.
* "gravater_on_rails":http://github.com/mdeering/gravatar_image_tag - A configurable and documented Rail view helper for adding gravatars into your Rails application
* "fleximage":http://github.com/Squeegy/fleximage - Rails plugin for uploading images as resources, with support for resizing, text stamping, and other special effects.
* "proxy_machine":http://github.com/mojombo/proxymachine - A simple TCP routing proxy built on EventMachine that lets you configure the routing logic in Ruby.
* "rubycas-server":http://github.com/square-circle-triangle/rubycas-server - Provides a single sign-on solution for web applications, implementing the server-end of JA-SIG's CAS protocol.
* "prettyscript":http://github.com/jedediah/prettyscript - a young project that intends of making javascript syntax suck less. good luck.
