--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 10/3/2010
layout: post
---


h4. Links

* "Use HTTParty to test emails to GMail":http://lucidcode.co.nz/blog/archives/2010/03/02/testing-email-delivery-in-rails-with-gmail-httparty/ - nice trick.
* "Test execution time of a ruby block":http://gist.github.com/322391 - "@ryanbigg":http://www.ryanbigg.com with a useful tip.
* "Sinatra's follwoing list on Github":http://github.com/sinatra/following - A good list of resources on Sinatra.
* "Ruby and Rails chops":http://www.viddler.com/explore/kblake/videos/ - some more Rails screencasts.
* "size vs. count vs. length":http://blog.hasmanythrough.com/2008/2/27/count-length-size - Some differences caused by ActiveRecord.
* "Prototypal inheritance with Javascript":http://neeraj.name/2010/03/11/prototypal-inheritance-in-javascript.html - a brief explanation.
* "Mac Performance guide":http://macperformanceguide.com/index.html - good tips and pointers when choosing a Mac. (Thanks "mike":http://afreshcup.com !)
* "Sketchy":http://mrdoob.com/lab/javascript/harmony/#sketchy - this is by far, the best web based drawing tool i've seen.
* "Pure CSS bubbles":http://nicolasgallagher.com/demo/pure-css-speech-bubbles/bubbles.html - win, this should work on the evil browsers as well with some common js hacks.
* "Geo location with javascript":http://www.smashingmagazine.com/2010/03/08/entering-the-wonderful-world-of-geo-location/ - another awesome writeup by smashing.

h4. Treasures

* "nimble_nodes":http://github.com/glasner/nimble_nodes - Automatic scaling for Heroku Dynos. haven't tried it but it does seem to be a nice solution, especially if you could set a threshold to your payments.
* "speks for Node.js":http://iamneato.com/2010/01/03/speks-for-node - an RSpec-alike library for Node.js which is quiet nice actually.
* "remail is now opensourced":http://code.google.com/p/remail-iphone/ - a successful and recently purchased by Google iPhone application is opensource, good to read.
* "oncloud":http://oncloud.org/ - a really nice service that allow quick exposure of a rails app.
* "Examples of ActionMailer parameters":http://gist.github.com/326227 - from Redmine.
* "EnigmaMachine":http://github.com/futurechimp/enigmamachine - A queue based video encoder.
* "show_for":http://github.com/plataformatec/show_for - Dry your model's attribute display views.
* "js_model":http://github.com/benpickles/js-model - a simple DSL to create models in Javascript. includes validation and other fun stuff.. requires jQueyr tho. 
* "A comprehensive CSS reset and basic layout document":http://tjkdesign.com/ez-css/css/base.css - and a really good one.
* "spritely":http://www.spritely.net/ - a really, REALLY impressive animation plugin for jquery. claims to compete with Flash too.
* "The panic status board":http://www.panic.com/blog/2010/03/the-panic-status-board/ - Pretty awesome implementation of a team-status viewer.
* "Login with twitter to your application, Rack version":http://github.com/mislav/twitter-login - might, just might, be useful.
* "DataMiner":http://github.com/seamusabshere/data_miner - Download and import XLS, ODS, XML, CSV into your active record models. It's a little bit weird and out of context imo, but it might develop into something interesting.
* "cucumber-screenshots":http://github.com/mocoso/cucumber-screenshot - capture screenshots of the pages generated by your Rails application as it runs your Cucumber/Webrat features (webkit only). For the other platform "Watir":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/blob/master/examples/watir/features/support/screenshots.rb will do the trick.