--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 1/3/2010
layout: post
---

* "Customized Google forms with Heroku":http://drnicwilliams.com/2010/02/25/customized-google-forms/ - google say no to themes and fancy stuff? Nic says Aye!
* "3 firefox hacks for some speed":http://gnoted.com/3-hacks-for-firefox-double-internet-browsing-speed/ - nice, but i think the thing you want the most is a 4GB&lt; dev machine.
* "Launching a Rails Application - Checklist":http://www.robbyonrails.com/articles/2008/12/14/launching-ruby-on-rails-projects-a-checklist - a rather old entry form PlantArgon but still catches, we should probably post ours too.
* "The maintainability of Unit Tests":http://blog.jayfields.com/2010/02/maintainability-of-unit-tests.html - long runs and test breaking when you refactor your code can simply be a reference to you, doing it wrong. but good points overall.
* "Writing shoulda macros":http://szeryf.wordpress.com/2010/03/01/custom-shoulda-macros-a-tutorial/ - a brief tutorial.
* "Command line utilities for Mac OS":http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1157864 - geeks unleashed.
* "AgileZen":http://agilezen.com/? - might be a nice tool, if i'll get overconfused with PT.
* "Fear and loathing in Javascript DSL":http://alexyoung.org/2009/10/22/javascript-dsl/ - love your rubies.
* "Eloquent Javascript":http://eloquentjavascript.net/ - a book that aims to teach javascript programming, looks pretty solid with a nice coverage on it.
* "Rapid prototyping with HAML, SASS and Ruby":http://jgn.heroku.com/2010/02/28/rapid-prototyping-with-haml-sass-and-ruby/ - argh, i don't like either HAML or SASS (yeah, i know), but this article does show some nice time saving techniques for those of you that prefer to burn in hell :).
* "How Node.js saved my application":http://rfw.posterous.com/how-nodejs-saved-my-web-application - a really nice use case on a Rails application.
* "Node.js, Redis and resque for scalability":http://rfw.posterous.com/how-nodejs-saved-my-web-application - a really nice wrap by Paul Gross, design a nice web server with those tools to empower scalability.
* "Web focused git workflow":http://joemaller.com/2008/11/25/a-web-focused-git-workflow - deploy / work / manage simple sites with git.
* "Schema-free mySQL vs. NoSQL":http://www.igvita.com/2010/03/01/schema-free-mysql-vs-nosql/ - Igvita with another one of his "print-and-get-it-gold-framed-asap" posts, this dude is simply one of the best.
* "Practical examples of CSS3":http://www.viget.com/inspire/practical-uses-of-css3/ - enough with round corners already! 
* "Deploying MongoDB in production":http://blog.boxedice.com/2010/02/28/notes-from-a-production-mongodb-deployment/ - Some important notes from BoxedIce's experience.. some very disappointing limitations on Mongo there.
* "HAProxy 1.4":http://agiletesting.blogspot.com/2010/02/use-haproxy-14-if-you-need-mysql-health.html - the awesome load balancer is now with mysql health checks.
* "A smart robots.txt":http://sebastians-pamphlets.com/smart-robots-txt/ - get yourself a shiny new robots.txt
* "Under 600px, a different 'fold' perspective":http://iampaddy.com/lifebelow600/ - a neat perspective about layout design.
* "High availability principle: request queuing":http://saasinterrupted.com/2010/02/24/high-availability-principle-request-queueing/ - a good brief explanation and some others are there too.


h4. Treasures

* "OpenLayers":http://dev.openlayers.org/releases/OpenLayers-2.8/doc/apidocs/files/OpenLayers-js.html - or the "main page":http://dev.openlayers.org/, a javascript mapping API, looks promising but as always almost, documentation sucks.
* "SnippetStash":http://www.snippetstash.com/ - another charm by "bphogan":http://twitter.com/bphogan, this time it's a convenient tool to keep snippets around. beats gist since you can write a more visible descriptive text.
* "Canable":http://github.com/jnunemaker/canable/ - simple permission system for rails.
* "AuthlogicGenerator":http://github.com/develon/authlogic_generator - Generate a complete Authlogic stack with authentication, activation and password reset.
* "960static":http://github.com/napcs/960static - generate static websites with 960.gs and StaticMatic.
* "Command line gists":http://github.com/defunkt/gist - i didn't know it's out there.
* "CorMVC - jQuery MVC framework":http://www.bennadel.com/projects/cormvc-jquery-framework.htm - it's been a while since i started looking for some javascript MVC resources, this might be reasonable.
* "Delorean":http://github.com/bebanjo/delorean - a space/time continuum abuser in ruby.
* "Main":http://github.com/ahoward/main - a class factory and dsl for generating command line programs real quick.
