--- 
title: Bag O' Links - 14/1/2010
layout: post
---


first and most important:
On Jan 16-17 2010, "RailsBridge":http://www.railsbridge.org will run the 3rd bugmash event, this time with Rails 3! wuhoo!.
Not like the previous bugmashs, this time we will focus more on getting Rails 3 down to the people and to make more people familiar with it rather than just patching and solving tickets (of course you can do that too, we will be happy).

As usual you can read about it on the "RailsBridge Official bugmash wikipage":http://http://wiki.railsbridge.org/projects/railsbridge/wiki/BugMash and on IRC (irc.freenode.net) on the #railsbridge channel.

Join us, it will be fun (yes, we have prizes too!).

Now for the reason you are probably here:

* "Metaprogramming: Ruby vs. Javascript":http://fingernailsinoatmeal.com/post/292301859/metaprogramming-ruby-vs-javascript - magic, javascript can haz it too.
* "MooTools for beginners - part 1":http://ryanflorence.com/mootools-for-beginners-part-1-the-basics/ - This is one of the best tutorials i've seen for Mootools, it's simple and presents the neat MooShell which presents live code that you can run and change, cool (thanks "@elado":http://twitter.com/elado for this one).
* "Ruby 1.9 on production: just do it":http://earthcode.com/blog/2010/01/rails_on_ruby_191_in_productio.html - an article that calls the use of Ruby 1.9 in production stating that most things we need are already working, well.. last time i tried the mysql gem went up in flames, maybe it's time to try again.
* "Codility - developer assessment tool":http://codility.com/ - this is a tool that is _supposed_ to make recruiting a developer easier simply by offering a way to test them, nice.. but to be honest, i have no idea if i could solve those questions :).
* "Collaborative Facebook Development":http://blog.shedd.us/post/327133784/collaborative-facebook-development - a suggesting on a team and work flow layout for a Facebook application development process, will need soon.
* "Rackspace vs. Amazon EC2: performance analysis":http://www.thebitsource.com/2010/01/11/rackspace-cloud-servers-versus-amazon-ec2-performance-analysis/ - A comparison between those 2 cloud computing service providers, Rackspace wins this one.
* "Rails 3.0's ActiveModel: give your Ruby classes some ActiveRecord magic":http://www.rubyinside.com/rails-3-0s-activemodel-how-to-give-ruby-classes-some-activerecord-magic-2937.html - Rails 3.0 major approach change is mainly about "module"-izing anything, and this post is a great example how you can use parts of what used to be AR:Base-only scope in plain Ruby classes. Adding validations and callbacks for example is marly a question of including the right module. win. 
* "Gordong - open source Flash runtime in javascript":http://paulirish.com/work/gordon/demos/ - i have only one word to say: wow.
* "vimcasts":http://vimcasts.org/ - know your vim, screencast style.
* "a generator script for Rails pre3.0":http://gist.github.com/225330 - haven't tried it, use at your own risk.
* "Facebook style footer panel":http://www.sohtanaka.com/web-design/facebook-style-footer-admin-panel-part-1/ - stick'em down.
* "IBM Developer works: emerging web technologies":http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/web/library/wa-emergingtech/ - thinks to look up to in the future, R3 is there.
* "Using the right CSS framework":http://webhostinghelpguy.inmotionhosting.com/web-design-tips/using-a-css-framework-your-shortcut-to-style/ - chhose the right one for you.
* "Nginx and passenger script":http://blog.peepcode.com/tutorials/2010/nginx-passenger-script - quickly run nginx on development machines.
* "validatious 2":http://validatious.org/ - the cross browser client side form validation plugin is not on v2.
* "SQL for beginners":http://net.tutsplus.com/tutorials/other/sql-for-beginners/ - netuts have some good guides lately.
* "Cappuchino on Rails":http://blog.jerodsanto.net/2010/01/cappuccino-on-rails/ - a library to connect between Cappuchino and a Rails back-end.
* "Importing legacy data to Rails":http://openmonkey.com/articles/2009/05/importing-legacy-data-in-rails - cool.
* "encapsulation in javascript":http://james.padolsey.com/javascript/encapsulation-in-javascript/ - good practices + 1. 
* "HTML5 client side storage":http://www.taranfx.com/html-5-client-storage - HTML5 is interesting, but again... it will suck until all those browsers make up their minds.
* "Study: web forms design":http://www.cxpartners.co.uk/thoughts/web_forms_design_guidelines_an_eyetracking_study.htm - interesting.



